charts/enterprise/traefik/docs/how-to.md, before:

---
title: Installing Traefik
---

Within TrueCharts, our aim is to make it as easy as possible to secure your Apps.
To support this, we supply a separate Traefik "ingress" app, which has been pre-configured to provide secure and fast connections.

## How-To

### TrueNAS WebUI

In order to set up Traefik, you will be required to change the default TrueNAS WebUI access ports.
These ports are by default set to port `80` for HTTP and port `443` for HTTPS.
This is necessary as we will be setting Traefik up to function as a reverse proxy, and receive traffic on these host ports.

In the TrueNAS Menu, navigate to **System** > **General**. Click the **Settings** button at the top right of the GUI component.
Under these **GUI Settings**, change:

- Web Interface HTTP Port to port `81`
- Web Interface HTTPS Port to port `444`.

Click **Save** to save your changes. The WebUI will now prompt you to restart the web server service,
after which you will be automatically redirected to your dashboard through one of the new ports.
If you are not prompted to restart the web server service, you may restart the machine and manually navigate
to the WebUI address followed by one of the new ports eg. `truenas.local:81`.

:::info

These are the recommended ports for this procedure. Using different ports may require some
changes to your configuration that are not covered in this tutorial.

:::

:::warning

Do not skip this step. Neglecting to change the default ports active may cause your WebUI to become inaccessible after the following step.
Ensure you are accessing your WebUI from the new ports before proceeding.

:::

### Installing the Traefik Scale App

:::note

Traefik is part of the `enterprise` train, so make sure you have it enabled as specified in the [guide](https://truecharts.org/manual/SCALE/guides/getting-started#adding-truecharts).

:::

In the TrueNAS Menu, navigate to **Apps** > **Available Applications**. Use the search bar to search for or manually
find the Traefik app in the list of apps, and click **Install**

The setup of Traefik is relatively straight-forward. Most of the settings remain unchanged from default, except for these two:

- **Application Name**: Enter a name for your app. You may use simply _traefik_ for this field.
- At the bottom, check the warning checkbox.

Continue to section 12, and select **Next**. Traefik will now be installed.
After installation you can access the Traefik dashboard using your host IP address followed by `:9000`, or by simply clicking "Web Portal" on the application's entry under **Apps** > **Installed Applications**.

## Video Guide

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/bWNPfrKjawI" title="YouTube video player" frameBorder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowFullScreen></iframe>

Commit message:

docs(Traefik): Add notice about TCP/UDP ingress (#16745)
**Description**

Adds notice to Traefik How-To that we don't support TCP/UDP ingress

⚒️ Fixes  # <!--(issue)-->

**⚙️ Type of change**

- [X] ⚙️ Feature/App addition
- [ ] 🪛 Bugfix
- [ ] ⚠️ Breaking change (fix or feature that would cause existing
functionality to not work as expected)
- [ ] 🔃 Refactor of current code

**🧪 How Has This Been Tested?**
<!--
Please describe the tests that you ran to verify your changes. Provide
instructions so we can reproduce. Please also list any relevant details
for your test configuration
-->

**📃 Notes:**
<!-- Please enter any other relevant information here -->

**✔️ Checklist:**

- [ ] ⚖️ My code follows the style guidelines of this project
- [ ] 👀 I have performed a self-review of my own code
- [ ] #️⃣ I have commented my code, particularly in hard-to-understand
areas
- [ ] 📄 I have made corresponding changes to the documentation
- [ ] ⚠️ My changes generate no new warnings
- [ ] 🧪 I have added tests to this description that prove my fix is
effective or that my feature works
- [ ] ⬆️ I increased versions for any altered app according to semantic
versioning

**➕ App addition**

If this PR is an app addition please make sure you have done the
following.

- [ ] 🪞 I have opened a PR on
[truecharts/containers](https://github.com/truecharts/containers) adding
the container to TrueCharts mirror repo.
- [ ] 🖼️ I have added an icon in the Chart's root directory called
`icon.png`

---

_Please don't blindly check all the boxes. Read them and only check
those that apply.
Those checkboxes are there for the reviewer to see what is this all
about and
the status of this PR with a quick glance._

charts/enterprise/traefik/docs/how-to.md, after:

---
title: Installing Traefik
---

Within TrueCharts, our aim is to make it as easy as possible to secure your Apps.
To support this, we supply a separate Traefik "ingress" app, which has been pre-configured to provide secure and fast connections.

:::notice

The current TrueCharts implementation of Traefik doesn't support TCP/UDP Ingress, only HTTP/HTTPS

:::

## How-To

### TrueNAS WebUI

In order to set up Traefik, you will be required to change the default TrueNAS WebUI access ports.
These ports are by default set to port `80` for HTTP and port `443` for HTTPS.
This is necessary as we will be setting Traefik up to function as a reverse proxy, and receive traffic on these host ports.

In the TrueNAS Menu, navigate to **System** > **General**. Click the **Settings** button at the top right of the GUI component.
Under these **GUI Settings**, change:

- Web Interface HTTP Port to port `81`
- Web Interface HTTPS Port to port `444`.

Click **Save** to save your changes. The WebUI will now prompt you to restart the web server service,
after which you will be automatically redirected to your dashboard through one of the new ports.
If you are not prompted to restart the web server service, you may restart the machine and manually navigate
to the WebUI address followed by one of the new ports eg. `truenas.local:81`.

:::info

These are the recommended ports for this procedure. Using different ports may require some
changes to your configuration that are not covered in this tutorial.

:::

:::warning

Do not skip this step. Neglecting to change the default ports active may cause your WebUI to become inaccessible after the following step.
Ensure you are accessing your WebUI from the new ports before proceeding.

:::

### Installing the Traefik Scale App

:::note

Traefik is part of the `enterprise` train, so make sure you have it enabled as specified in the [guide](https://truecharts.org/manual/SCALE/guides/getting-started#adding-truecharts).

:::

In the TrueNAS Menu, navigate to **Apps** > **Available Applications**. Use the search bar to search for or manually
find the Traefik app in the list of apps, and click **Install**

The setup of Traefik is relatively straight-forward. Most of the settings remain unchanged from default, except for these two:

- **Application Name**: Enter a name for your app. You may use simply _traefik_ for this field.
- At the bottom, check the warning checkbox.

Continue to section 12, and select **Next**. Traefik will now be installed.
After installation you can access the Traefik dashboard using your host IP address followed by `:9000`, or by simply clicking "Web Portal" on the application's entry under **Apps** > **Installed Applications**.

## Video Guide

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/bWNPfrKjawI" title="YouTube video player" frameBorder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowFullScreen></iframe>
